---
title: "Certification of Iterated Belief Changes via Model Checking and its Implementation"
date: 2021-10-27T10:00:03+00:00
# weight: 1
slug: "certification-of-iterated-belief-changes-via-model-checking-and-its-implementation"
tags: ["research", "belief-change"]
author: "Philip Heltweg"
# author: ["Me", "You"] # multiple authors
showToc: false
TocOpen: false
draft: false
hidemeta: false
comments: false
description: "Paper published at the 19th International Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning (NMR-2021)"
disableHLJS: false # to disable highlightjs
disableShare: false
searchHidden: false

---

Note: An extended version of this paper has been published at the 7th Workshop on Formal and Cognitive Reasoning, [you can find it here](/posts/on-using-model-checking-for-the-certification-of-iterated-belief-changes/).

Our paper "Certification of Iterated Belief Changes via Model Checking and its Implementation" got accepted to the [19th International Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning (NMR-2021)](https://sites.google.com/view/nmr2021/home) at the [18th International Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning (KR 2021)](https://kr2021.kbsg.rwth-aachen.de/). During the workshop I held a short presentation of the results. You can find both the paper as well as the presentation slides here.

# Abstract
Iterated belief change investigates principles for changes on epistemic states and their representational groundings. A common realisation of epistemic states are total preorders over possible worlds. In this paper, we consider the problem of certifying whether an operator over total preorders satisfies a given postulate. We introduce the first-order fragment FOTPC for expressing belief change postulates and present a way to encode information on changes into an FOTPC-structure. As a result, the question of whether a belief change fulfils a postulate becomes a model checking problem. We present Alchourron, an implementation of our approach, consisting of an extensive Java library, and also of a web interface, which suits didactic purposes and experimental studies.

# Download
[NMR-2021 Paper local](/files/nmr2021.pdf)

[NMR-2021 Workshop Proceedings](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1WSIl3TOrXBhaWhckWN4NLXoD9AVFKp5R)

[NMR-2021 Presentation Slides](/files/nmr2021_slides.pdf)

{{< aboutme >}}